Add intro to agents doc (#48781)
dotnet/docs: docs/ai/conceptual/agents.md

---
title: Agents
description: Introduction to agents
author: luisquintanilla
ms.author: luquinta
ms.date: 10/01/2025
ms.topic: concept-article
---

# Agents

This article introduces the core concepts behind agents, why they matter, and how they fit into workflows, setting you up to get started building agents in .NET.

## What are agents?

**Agents are systems that accomplish objectives.**

![Components of an agent](../media/agents/agent-components.png)

Agents become more capable when equipped with the following:

- **Reasoning and decision-making**: Powered by LLMs, search algorithms, or planning and decision-making systems.
- **Tool usage**: Access to Model Context Protocol (MCP) servers, code execution, and external APIs.
- **Context awareness**: Informed by chat history, threads, vector stores, enterprise data, or knowledge graphs.

These capabilities allow agents to operate more autonomously, adaptively, and intelligently.

## What are workflows?

> As objectives grow in complexity, they need to be broken down into manageable steps. That’s where workflows come in.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As objectives grow in complexity, they need to be broken down into manageable steps. That's where workflows come in.
```

**Workflows define the sequence of steps required to achieve an objective.**

Imagine you're launching a new feature on your business website. If it's a simple update, you might go from idea to production in a few hours. But for more complex initiatives, the process might include:

- Requirement gathering
- Design and architecture
- Implementation
- Testing
- Deployment

A few important observations:

> - Each step may contain subtasks.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Each step might contain subtasks.
```

> - Different specialists may own different phases.
> - Progress isn’t always linear. Bugs found during testing may send you back to implementation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Different specialists might own different phases.
- Progress isn’t always linear. Bugs found during testing might send you back to implementation.
```

- Success depends on planning, orchestration, and communication across stakeholders.

> ### Agents + Workflows = Agentic Workflows
> 
> Workflows don’t require agents, but agents can supercharge them.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Agents + workflows = agentic workflows

Workflows don't require agents, but agents can supercharge them.
```

When agents are equipped with reasoning, tools, and context, they can optimize workflows.

This is the foundation of multi-agent systems, where agents collaborate within workflows to achieve complex goals.

### Workflow orchestration

> Agentic workflows can be orchestrated in a variety of ways. The following are a few of the most common.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Agentic workflows can be orchestrated in a variety of ways. The following are a few of the most common:

- [Sequential](#sequential)
- [Concurrent](#concurrent)
- [Handoff](#handoff)
- [Group chat](#group-chat)
```

#### Sequential

Agents process tasks one after another, passing results forward.

> ![Sequential agent orchestration: Task Input → Agent A → Agent B → Agent C → Final Output](../media/agents/sequential-workflow.png)

Reviewer: Can you trim this image down?

<img width="1363" height="757" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b2655cb3-38f6-460b-8802-2c10ef410f39" />

#### Concurrent

Agents work in parallel, each handling different aspects of the task.

![Concurrent agent orchestration: Task Input → Agents A, B, C → Aggregate Results → Final Output](../media/agents/concurrent-workflow.png)

#### Handoff

Responsibility shifts from one agent to another based on conditions or outcomes.

![Handoff orchestration: Task Input → Agent A Decision → Agent B or Agent A → Agent B Decision → Agent C or Agent B → Final Output](../media/agents/handoff-workflow.png)

> #### Group Chat

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Group chat
```

Agents collaborate in a shared conversation, exchanging insights in real-time.

![Group chat orchestration: User and Agents A, B, C collaborate via GroupChat to produce final output](../media/agents/groupchat-workflow.png)

## How can I get started building agents in .NET?

> The building blocks in Microsoft.Extensions.AI as well as Microsoft.Extensions.VectorData provide you with the foundations for agents by providing modular components for AI models, tools, and data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The building blocks in <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.AI> and <xref:Microsoft.Extensions.VectorData> supply the foundations for agents by providing modular components for AI models, tools, and data.
```

Reviewer: (Avoids double use of provide)

These components serve as the foundation for Microsoft Agent Framework.

> See the [Microsoft Agent Framework documentation](/agent-framework/overview/agent-framework-overview) to learn more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see [Microsoft Agent Framework](/agent-framework/overview/agent-framework-overview).

```
